## Lec1 - Racket and Callsites

- Programming languages are of 2 types:
  - Syntax -> how the code looks 
  - Semantics -> what the code means 

- What kind of input strings constitutes valid programs ?
  - Very sparse and uniform syntax and very basic syntactic forms.
  - Focus just on the core of the language, definitions more of the core.
  - Functions are the heart of the programming langauge -> Racket is a functional programming language.

- Semantics -> is the thing programs actually mean, syntax is superficial.
  - Speicify how the program operates by writing the VM of it.

- Remember:
  - Expressions 
  - Forms 
  - Callsites.

### Forms in Racket:
- A form is a recognized syntax in the language:
  - (if ...), (and ...) are forms 
  - But +, list refer to functions 
  - Core forms defined by the language (if/and/define/...)
  - we can define new forms too! 
- Scheme prefers to give a small number of general forms.
- Environment maps names of the things 
- #lang racket -> tells the Racket programming system to use the full version of the racket programming language. 
   - can include different forms of racket and associate languages and also different forms of the language.

- racket ususe vall by value, hence the call never terminates.
  - so any self recursive function will never terminate.
  - this is a consequence of a form rather than a function call.

### Vlaues and Expressions
- Every language has a set of values:
  - Primitive objects representable at runtime
  - Expressions evaluate to values.
  - Numbers, strings but also functions(closures).
- An expressions is any form that evalutes to a value.
  - Very important term to know !
  - pieces of languages that evaluate the languges,
  - number,strings and even functions.
  - runtime also called as closures.
  - Objects are values in OOPs like Java, JS.
  
- Any syntax that evaluate to a value is called a expression.  
- Ex:
```scheme 
  (define x 23)
```
1. not evaluate to a value, so not an expression.
```scheme
x
```
```scheme 
(+ x 3)
```
2. callsite with a function expression
```scheme
(define (foo x)(+ x 1))
```
3. does not generate a value, just defines a name 
```scheme
(if x (foo x)(bar x))
```
4. whatever is generated by foo or whatever generated by var.

